---
title: 'A Walk Through Paracompactness'
date: 2021-10-11
permalink: /posts/2021/10/a-walk-through-paracompactness/
tags:
  - partitions-of-unity
  - paracompactness
  - differential-geometry
---

Paracompact Spaces
==================
The notion of *paracompactness* is somewhat a variation of *compactness*. Namely, it is yet another statement about what type of subcover may be extracted from an open cover of a given topological space. Recall, for a topological space $X$,

- $X$ is said to be a **Lindelöf space** if every open cover of $X$ has a *countable* subcover.
- $X$ is said to be a **compact space** if every open cover of $X$ has a *finite* subcover.

*Remark.* To clarify, by an *open cover* of $X$, we mean an arbitrary collection $\mathfrak{U} = (U_\alpha)_{\alpha \in A}$ of open sets such that 
$$X \subseteq \bigcup_{\alpha \in A} U_\alpha.$$

So, a *subcover* of $\mathfrak{U}$ is simply a collection $(U_\beta)_{\beta \in B}$ with $B \subseteq A$. 
\
\
\
Paracompact spaces, like Lindelöf and compact spaces, allow us to extract some special collection of sets; out of any given open cover. In particular, paracompact spaces allow you to take an open cover $\mathfrak{U}$ and do two things:
1. "Shrink" each open set in the cover (i.e., take some open subset of $U$ for each $U \in \mathfrak{U}$), and
2. pull out a resulting cover $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ such that every point of $x$ has a neighborhood meeting only finitely many of the open sets in $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$. That is, $x$ has a neighborhood that has empty intersection for all but finitely many elements of $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$. 

*Note*: This resulting cover $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ is not necessarily a subcover of $\mathfrak{U}$,
\
\
To get more comfortable with this new idea, let's consider the real line $\mathbb{R}$ with its standard topology. Pick your favorite open cover $\mathfrak{U}$ of $\mathbb{R}$. If $\mathbb{R}$ is paracompact, then we should be able to shrink this open cover down to *another* open cover $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$. Now, according to the second condition above, every point $x$ in the topological space should have a neighborhood that can be covered by finitely many $U \in \widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$. Let's think about this point as it relates to compactness. 
\
\
Basically, we're saying that every point in $x$ has a neighborhood with a finite cover from $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$. How can we ensure such a finite cover from $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ exists? Well, we know that each point $x$ in $\mathbb{R}$ is an element of some compact set. For example, if we take $\varepsilon > 0$ to be arbitrary, the set
$$K_x(\varepsilon)=[x - \varepsilon, x + \varepsilon]$$
serves as a "compact neighborhood" of $x$. As such, *any* open cover of $K_x(\varepsilon)$ can be dropped down to a finite subcover, whereby the open ball $B_x(\varepsilon) = (x - \varepsilon, x + \varepsilon) \subset K_x(\varepsilon)$ intersects only finitely many open sets in this finite subcover, since $K_x(\varepsilon)$ intersects only finitely many open sets in this finite subcover. 
\
\
Collecting all these ideas together, we can now begin to draw out a plan of action. With our arbitrary open cover $\mathfrak{U}$ of $\mathbb{R}$. If we can cover $\mathbb{R}$ by compact sets (that is, place each point of $\mathbb{R}$ inside a comapct set - namely a closed interval), then for each of these compact sets we can reduce $\mathfrak{U}$ down to a finite subcover. Doing this for every compact set gives us a sequence of finite subcovers, which we can use to "shrink" $\mathfrak{U}$. 
\
\
Let's take our compact covering of $\mathbb{R}$ to be
$$\mathfrak{K} = \lbrace [n, n + 1] : n \in \mathbb{Z} \rbrace$$
Now, since each $[n, n + 1]$ is compact, for each $n \in \mathbb{Z}$, for $[n, n + 1]$ we have a finite subcover $G^n = U_1^n, U_2^n, \dots, U_m^n$ with $U_1^n, \dots, U_m^n \in \mathfrak{U}$. Now, we have a sequence $G^1, G^2, \dots, G^n, \dots$ of finite subcovers. Now, all we have to do is shrink $\mathfrak{U}$, as all the $G^n$'s give is is a subcover of $\mathfrak{U}$. This is easy, for each $n$, just take the collection of open sets
$$G^n \cap (n - 1, n + 2).$$
You might ask for a moment, why do we specify the endpoints at $n - 1$ and $n + 2$? Well, first of all, this is so that we are able to encase the closed interval $[n, n + 1]$ in an open interval, since $G^n$ was a finite cover of $[n, n + 1]$. To make things cleaner, we just make the end points relative to $n$, and also make them integers. Thus, taking the collection of all open sets of the form $G^n \cap (n - 1, n + 2)$ gives us a shrunken $\mathfrak{U}$ while giving us tricky second condition. 
## Definition
Before getting to the formal definition of paracompactness, let's introduce some new terms. Let $X$ be a topological space, $\mathfrak{U}$ some open cover of $X$, and $\mathfrak{V}$ some collection of subsets of $X$.
1. Another open cover $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ of $X$ is a **refinement** of $\mathfrak{U}$ if for all $\widetilde{U} \in \widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ there exists a $U \in \mathfrak{U}$ such that $\widetilde{U} \subseteq U$. 
2. $\mathfrak{V}$ is **locally finite** if for all $p \in X$, there exists some open set $U$ containing $p$ such that $$U \cap V \neq \emptyset \qquad \text{for only finitely many } V \in \mathfrak{V}.$$
\
\
Now for the main definition.
\
\
> **Definition:** A topological space $X$ is said to be **paracompact** if every open cover of $X$ has a locally finite refinement.
Quantitatively, a topological space $X$ is paracompact if for any open cover $\mathfrak{U}$ of $X$, there exists an open cover $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ such that $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ is a refinement of $\mathfrak{U}$ that is also locally finite.

## Reconciling Paracompactness with Compactness
While paracomapctness is a rather complicated notion when compared to other variations of compactness, it is still a weaker condition than compactness.

> **Theorem**: If a topological space is compact, then it is also paracompact.


*Proof*. Let $X$ be a compact topological space. Given any open cover $\mathfrak{U}$ of $X$, we may extract a finite subcover $\widetilde{U}$. Now, $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ is a refinement of itself. It is also locally finite, as *any* open set in $X$ can only intersect finitely many of the open sets in $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ because $\widetilde{\mathfrak{U}}$ is itself finite. This completes the proof.

<p align=right>
∎
</p>


